test: data

schedule:

    - day: Monday, February 26th

    - start: 2:00pm
      end: 3:30pm
      title: Session WG (Dan)

    - start: 3:30pm
      end: 4:00pm
      title: Break

    - start: 4:00pm
      end: 5:30pm
      title: Session WG (Dan)

    - endday: done


    - day: Tuesday, February 27th

    - start: 9:00am
      end: 10:30am
      title: Tools WG (Marc-Andre and Kathyrn)

    - start: 9:00am
      end: 10:30am
      title: Persistence WG (Tony)

    - start: 10:30am
      end: 11:00am
      title: Break

    - start: 11:00am
      end: 12:30pm
      title: Tools WG (Marc-Andre and Kathyrn)

    - start: 11:00am
      end: 12:30pm
      title: Collective/Comm/Groups WG (Tony)

    - start: 12:30pm
      end: 1:30pm
      title: lunch

    - start: 1:30pm
      end: 3:00pm
      title: FT WG (Wesley)

    - start: 1:30pm
      end: 3:00pm
      title: HW Topology (Guillaume)

    - start: 3:00pm
      end: 3:30pm
      title: Break

    - start: 3:30pm
      end: 5:00pm
      title: FT WG (Wesley)

    - start: 3:30pm
      end: 5:00pm
      title: HW Topology (Guillaume)

    - endday: done


    - day: Wednesday, February 28th

    - start: 9:00pm
      end: 10:30am
      title: Plenary (agenda see below)

    - start: 10:30am
      end: 11:00am
      title: Break

    - start: 11:00am
      end: 12:30pm
      title: Plenary (agenda see below)

    - start: 12:30pm
      end: 1:30pm
      title: lunch

    - start: 1:30pm
      end: 3:00pm
      title: Plenary (agenda see below)

    - start: 3:00pm
      end: 3:30pm
      title: Break

    - start: 3:30pm
      end: 5:00pm
      title: Plenary (agenda see below)

    - start: 5:30pm
      end: 9:00pm
      title: Group dinner ("pay yourself"), location tbd.

    - endday: done


    - day: Thusday, March 1st

    - start: 9:00am
      end: 9:30am
      title: Voting Block

    - start: 9:30am
      end: 10:30am
      title: Plenary (agenda see below)

    - start: 10:30am
      end: 11:00am
      title: Break

    - start: 11:00am
      end: 12:30pm
      title: Plenary (agenda see below)

    - endday: done

procedure-votes:

errata-votes:

no-no-votes:

first-votes:
    - number: 1
      description: Clarify MPI_ERRORS_ARE_FATAL scope of abort

    - number: 3
      description: Define new MPI Error handler for subcommunicator abort

first-and-only-votes:
    - number: 6
      description: Update of MPIR document to include line numbers in specification

second-votes:

plenaries:
    - type: Welcome
      title: Introductions
      presenter: All
      done: 0

    - type: Update
      title: WG Status
      presenter: All WG chairs or their proxies
      done: 0

    - type: WG Vote
      title: Expanding the Scope of the Collectives WG to include Comm and Group
      presenter: Martin
      done: 0

    - type: Discussion
      title: MPI Forum Updates
      presenter: Martin
      done: 0

    - type: Reading
      title: "<a href=\"https://github.com/mpi-forum/mpi-issues/issues/67\">#67:</a> MPI_T Consistent reference to MPI processes"
      presenter: "Marc-Andre"
      done: 0

    - type: Reading
      title: "<a href=\"https://github.com/mpi-forum/mpi-issues/issues/77\">#77:</a> Add integer-based access to MPI_Wtime"
      presenter: "Marc-Andre"
      done: 0

    - type: Discussion
      title: "<a href=\"https://github.com/mpi-forum/mpi-issues/issues/79\">#79:</a> Callback-driven event inteface for MPI_T"
      presenter: "Marc-Andre"
      done: 0

    - type: Reading
      title: "<a href=\"https://github.com/mpi-forum/mpi-issues/issues/25\">#25:</a> Adding Persistent Collective Communication"
      presenter: Tony
      done: 0

    - type: Discussion
      title: "<a href=\"https://github.com/mpi-forum/mpi-issues/issues/78\">#78:</a> Add missing communicator operations (mostly non-blocking) to Groups, Contexts, Communicators, and Caching and Topology chapters"
      presenter: Tony
      done: 0

    - type: Reading
      title: "<a href=\"https://github.com/mpi-forum/mpi-issues/issues/28\">#28:</a> Catastrophic Errors"
      presenter: Wesley
      done: 0

    - type: Discussion
      title: FT Interoperability
      presenter: Wesley
      done: 0

    - type: Reading
      title: "<a href=\"https://github.com/mpi-forum/mpi-issues/issues/20\">#20:</a> User-Level Failure Mitigation"
      presenter: Wesley
      done: 0

    - type: Reading
      title: "<a href=\"https://github.com/mpi-forum/mpi-issues/issues/21\">#21:</a> User-Level Failure Mitigation: RMA"
      presenter: Wesley
      done: 0

    - type: Reading
      title: "<a href=\"https://github.com/mpi-forum/mpi-issues/issues/22\">#22:</a> User-Level Failure Mitigation: Files"
      presenter: Wesley
      done: 0

    - type: Reading
      title: "<a href=\"https://github.com/mpi-forum/mpi-issues/issues/80\">#80:</a> Large Count"
      presenter: Jeff
      done: 0

    - type: Discussion
      title: FP16
      presenter: Atsushi
      done: 0

    - type: Discussion
      title: "<a href=\"https://github.com/mpi-forum/mpi-issues/issues/76\">#76:</a> Same Info in Collectives"
      presenter: Wesley (for Jim)
      done: 0

    - type: Discussion
      title: The State of Sessions (SoS)
      presenter: Dan
      done: 0

    - type: Discussion
      title: Decisions on Virtual Meetings
      presenter: Martin
      done: 0
