---
layout: page
title: New to the MPI Forum
permalink: new/
---

Welcome to the MPI Forum! We're happy to have new people join the group and get
involved. Hopefully this page can help with a quick understanding of who we are
as an org and how we operate.

## What is the MPI Forum?

The MPI Forum is a mostly-volunteer organization the discusses and writes the
MPI Standard document. Participants in the MPI Forum join working groups,
discuss ideas in plenary sessions, and write and vote on proposals both at our
in-person meetings and our online sessions.

Membership in the MPI Forum has no cost and is open to everyone (though we do
charge a small fee to offset the cost of our in-person meetings). Members can
immediately participate in any working groups or plenaries that they find
interesting.

Voting rights are reserved for organizations that have sent representatives to
two of the most recent three meetings. Aside from any particular meeting's fee,
there is no fee associated with membership. The exact rules for how an
organization is able to vote can be found in the [procedures
document](https://www.mpi-forum.org/docs/other/procedures-33.pdf).

## How Does a Change Go Into the MPI Standard?

To make a change to the MPI Standard, the concept must go through a series of
steps:

### 1. Working Group Discussion

While this isn't strictly necessary, all substantive changes are recommended to
be discussed in a working group first to give the author an opportunity to get
feedback from interested and knowledgeable participants. To find a relevant
working group, see the list on the [most recent](../mpi-41) effort's page. If
none of the working groups seem relevant, you can create a new one by asking the
chair to put an item on the next meeting's agenda.

At this point, it's a good idea to create an issue in the MPI Forum's [GitHub
repository](https://github.com/mpi-forum/mpi-issues) as a place to have and
track discussions about the proposal.

### 2. Present Idea to the MPI Forum in a Plenary Discussion or Virtual Meeting

When an idea has reached enough maturity to warrant discussion with the entire
MPI Forum, reach out to the MPI Forum Chair to schedule a plenary at an upcoming
voting meeting or a virtual meeting to socialize the proposal. This will give
early feedback before writing a more formal proposal later.

### 3. Write the Proposal Text

When the proposal idea has enough feedback that it's ready for further
discussion, it's time to turn the idea into MPI Standard text. The MPI Forum
uses GitHub to track all of our work and details about how we organize things
can be found in our [wiki
page](https://github.com/mpi-forum/mpi-issues/wiki#getting-started). Examples of
how to create a proposal are also available there.

Once the proposal has been written, the working group should continue to iterate
on it until they believe it is ready to bring to the entire forum. In addition
to getting the general concepts right, the MPI Forum will also look at nitpicky
details to ensure the document is high quality so be sure to proofread
carefully.

### 4. Read the Proposal to the MPI Forum

Once the proposal has been written and discussed within the working group, the
author will read the proposal to the MPI Forum for comment. This is meant
literally and the author will read (either from the pull request or a generated
PDF) the changes being proposed. This reading takes place at a voting meeting of
the MPI Forum.

After the reading, the author should take any feedback back to the working group
and make any changes they think are necessary. If the changes are significant,
the proposal should be re-read at a future voting meeting. If the changes are
trivial or there are no changes, the proposal can move to the next step.

### 5. Vote on the Proposal

When the author thinks the proposal has sufficient support based on the
readings, the proposal is submitted for voting. Voting takes place at some
meeting after the meeting where the proposal was read (with the exception of
errata proposal for small corrections).

Each member organization of the MPI Forum gets one vote for each proposal. If
the ballot meets quorum (there are not too many abstentions) and 3/4 of the
voting orgs vote "yes", the ballot passes (there's a lot of detail being
omitted, but can be found in the [procedures
document](https://www.mpi-forum.org/docs/other/procedures-33.pdf)). The vote is
then repeated at a future meeting. After the second vote passes, the proposal is
accepted and will be included in the next version of the MPI Standard.

## How Does the MPI Forum Decide What to Discuss?

The agenda for each meeting is determined by the members. Discussions, plenary
topics, readings, and votes are all requested by the members of the MPI Forum
and organized by the MPI Forum Chair and Secretary. The agenda for each voting
meeting can be found on the meeting's agenda page. A list of all voting meetings
is available [here](../meetings).

Requests for readings and votes are due two weeks before the start of the
meeting, and the agenda for each meeting is posted on the website shortly after.

## How Can I Participate?

Getting involved in the MPI Forum only requires an interest in improving MPI.
Participating in working groups and virtual meetings has no cost and information
can be found on our website. For information about upcoming virtual meetings,
look at the [virtual meetings](../virtual_meetings) page. Information about the
working groups can be found from each working group's mailing list or wiki page.

To join a voting meeting, you only need to register for the meeting. If the
meeting is in-person, there may be a small fee to offset the cost of the
refreshments or meeting space. Registration information for each meeting can be
found on the meeting's logistics page. A list of all meetings can be found on
the [voting meetings](../meetings) page.

To stay up to date with all MPI Forum announcements, join the [MPI Forum mailing
list](http://lists.mpi-forum.org/).
