"issue_number","pr_number","topic","type","yes","no","abstain","missed"
"791","908","POST-RC4.1 FIXES -- Point-to-Point Chapter 3","errata","31","0","2","0"
"787","883","Fixes for typos in the datatype chapter","errata","31","0","2","0"
"755","885","chap-dynamic: remove use of \const","errata","31","0","2","0"
"790","906","mpi-4.1rc reviewer feedback for chap-11","errata","31","0","2","0"
"779","910","change-log entry for PR 629 missing","errata","31","0","2","0"
"774","898","Add change-log for PR #830","errata","31","0","2","0"
"781","902","change-log entry for PR 607 missing","errata","31","0","2","0"
"784","886","Reviewers comments and changes to chapter 7 in RC 4.1","errata","31","0","2","0"
"758","903","RMA-specific operators are not *new*","errata","31","0","2","0"
"763","905","RMA: remove reference to MPI-2 RMA","errata","31","0","2","0"
"760","904","RMA: Contradicting rules about use  of MPI_REQUEST_FREE","errata","31","0","2","0"
"745","857","RMA chapter committee changes","errata","31","0","2","0"
"764","912","MPI 4.1 RMA chapter review issues","errata","31","0","2","0"
"777","917","change-log entry missing for PR 663","errata","31","0","2","0"
"776","916","change-log entry missing for PR 671","errata","31","0","2","0"
"795","914","MPI 4.1rc topology chapter review: Update neighbor collective LIS entries to use associated virtual topology","errata","31","0","2","0"
"749","876","Corrections and edits to the Virtual Topologies chapter for MPI4.1rc1","errata","31","0","2","0"
"797","915","41rc1 collective chapter : use rank instead of MPI process for several collectives LIS","errata","31","0","2","0"
"800","919","41rc1 io chapter : Example 14.4 is used as a noun, which makes the text flow a bit odd","errata","31","0","2","0"
"799","918","41rc1 io chapter : fix most of small reviews","errata","31","0","2","0"
"780","922","change-log entry missing for PR 620","errata","31","0","2","0"
"753","881","Change-log typos","errata","31","0","2","0"
"741","884","Changelog: multiple mention of clarification of progress rules","errata","31","0","2","0"
"801","921","Change-log entry have incorrect/no references.","errata","31","0","2","0"
"792","909","Removed Interfaces RC Issues","errata","31","0","2","0"
"740","882","Stray subsection 'Host Rank' in Section 16.4","errata","31","0","2","0"
"783","901","Minor text updates from 4.1-rc1 review","errata","31","0","2","0"
"759","892","Use of 'local MPI process' does not conform to common practice in the document","errata","31","0","2","0"
"757","889","Text about PVAR watermark classes is ambiguous","errata","31","0","2","0"
"752","880","Fix WG chairs","no-no","31","0","2","0"
"747","874","Errata entry of PR #754 in wrong section","no-no","31","0","2","0"
"794","913","41rc1: chap10 - harmonizing mention to mpif.h and adding a missing (deprecated)","no-no","31","0","2","0"
"","","Vote on whether to repeat the FRM","procedure","1","29","3","0"
"","","Vote to ratify MPI 4.1","procedure","31","1","1","0"
"","","MPI Forum Chair","procedure","29","0","2","0"
"","","MPI Forum Secretary","procedure","31","0","0","0"
"","","MPI Forum Treasurer","procedure","31","0","0","0"
"","","MPI Forum Document Editor","procedure","31","0","0","0"
