schedule:

    - day: Monday, December 06

    - start: 09:00am
      end: 11:00am
      title: "Plenary Sessions"

    - start: 11:00am
      end: 11:15am
      title: "Voting Block with Parallel Plenary Sessions (could start later)"

    - start: 11:15am
      end: 12:00pm
      title: "Plenary Sessions"

    - endday: done


    - day: Tuesday, December 07

    - start: 09:00am
      end: 11:00am
      title: "Plenary Sessions"

    - start: 11:00am
      end: 11:15am
      title: "Voting Block with Parallel Plenary Sessions (could start later)"

    - start: 11:15am
      end: 12:00pm
      title: "Plenary Sessions"

    - endday: done


    - day: Wednesday, December 08

    - start: 09:00am
      end: 11:00am
      title: "Plenary Sessions"

    - start: 11:00am
      end: 11:15am
      title: "Voting Block with Parallel Plenary Sessions (could start later)"

    - start: 11:15am
      end: 12:00pm
      title: "Plenary Sessions"

    - endday: done


    - day: Thursday, December 09

    - start: 09:00am
      end: 11:00am
      title: "Plenary Sessions"

    - start: 11:00am
      end: 11:15am
      title: "Voting Block with Parallel Plenary Sessions (could start later)"

    - start: 11:15am
      end: 12:00pm
      title: "Plenary Sessions"

    - endday: done


procedure-votes:

errata-votes:

    - number: 449
      description: "wrong wording in the topology chapter"

no-no-votes:

first-votes:

second-votes:

plenaries:
    - type: Welcome
      title: Introductions
      presenter: All
      done: 0

    - type: Update
      title: WG Status
      presenter: All WG chairs or their proxies
      done: 0

    - type: Errata
      title: "wrong wording in the topology chapter"
      issue_number: 449
      presenter: Christoph
      done: 0

    - type: Reading
      title: "add a new error class MPI_ERR_ERRHANDLER"
      issue_number: 525
      presenter: Christoph
      done: 0

    - type: Reading
      title: "clarify the error handler argument to MPI_Comm_create_from_group and MPI_Intercomm_create_from_groups"
      issue_number: 511
      presenter: Martin/Dan
      done: 0

    - type: Reading
      title: "Remove/modify text in Section 7.7.1 (Functionality)"
      issue_number: 496
      presenter: Guillaume
      done: 0

    - type: Reading
      title: "Context Chapter Fix for Issue #474 + PR#590 redone (process -> MPI process)"
      issue_number: 474
      presenter: Guillaume
      done: 0

    - type: Reading
      title: "RMA: Replace 'operation' with 'operator' where appropriate"
      issue_number: 429
      presenter: Joseph
      done: 0

    - type: Reading
      title: "Fix semantic terms in RMA chapter"
      issue_number: 407
      presenter: Joseph
      done: 0

    - type: Discussion
      title: "feedback on my proposed changes to the appearance of the code and examples"
      issue_number:
      presenter: Bill
      done: 0



